>> TRIS (VOICEOVER): 100
years ago, after the war,
our founders created a system
they believed would create
lasting peace.
They divided society
into five factions.
>>The only way you can
survive is for each of you
to claim your rightful place.
>> TRIS (VOICEOVER): Everyone is
tested to determine who we are
and where we belong.
>>Say goodbye to your families.
>>Are you nervous?
>>No.
I'm terrified.
[DOG BARKING AND GROWLING]
>>[GASPS]
>>Your results
were inconclusive.
>>That's impossible.
>>It's not impossible.
It's just extremely rare.
You're able to control
and conquer your fears.
They call it divergent.
>>You don't fit into a category,
they can't control you.
You can't trust anyone.
You have to hide inside
a faction to survive.
Welcome to Dauntless.
[CROWD YELLING]
>>Initiates, we will be watching
to see who you really are.
>>You made a mistakes
choosing Dauntless.
They'll find out about you.
>>I know what you are.
>>You're afraid of heights.
>>Everyone's afraid
of something.
[BIRDS CAWING]
>>But not you.
Fear doesn't shut you down.
It wakes you up.
That's what makes you dangerous.
>>Divergents
threaten the system.
It won't be safe
until they're removed.
>>She's gonna kill me.
[GRUNTING]
>>We have to be
ready for anything.
>>The world is
changing, and you'll
have to decide who
you're loyal to.
>>[GRUNTS]
[CROWD CHEERING]
>>All of my life, I've
lived by your rules.
Not anymore.
>> ROBERT PHOENIX: So the film
clip you just witnessed is from
the movie "Divergent," and it
opens on April 21 of this year,
and it will open under
the sign of Aries.
Keep that in mind.
That's an important sign,
especially during these times.
And by the way,
April 21 is the sign
of the cardinal cross, which
we'll all be taking part
in during that time when
Pluto is at 13 degrees
Capricorn, Uranus at 13 degrees
Aries, Mars at 13 degrees
Libra, and Jupiter
at 13 degrees Cancer.
It's an auspicious day for
an opening, and certainly one
which has a lot of
astrological import.
It's the next edition
of films geared
for the Pluto in Sagittarius
generation, the first,
of course, being
"The Hunger Games."
We'll be talking about
"Divergent" and "The Hunger
Games" in today's episode
of "The Eleventh House."
Hi, I'm Robert Phoenix,
and welcome to it.
Let's get right into
the subject matter here.
We're talking about
Sagittarius and primarily Pluto
in Sagittarius.
Here we have the
constellation of Sagittarius.
It's the Archer.
And unlike their previous
generation, Pluto in Scorpio,
it's a fairly
different vibration.
It's a fairly different
aspect of the expression
of consciousness, and we're
going to get into those aspects
here with this slide.
So let's talk about the time
that Pluto is in Sagittarius.
I call this "The Hunger
Games" Generation
because the symbol for "The
Hunger Games," of courses,
is Katniss Everdeen.
And what does she
specialize in, in terms
of her weaponry in
"The Hunger Games"?
She specializes in
the bow and arrow,
so clearly this is a
symbol and archetypal
icon for the generation.
If we think that the generation
has the astrological DNA born
into it, then something
like "The Hunger Games"
certainly would be a trigger
symbol for that generation.
So here we go.
January 1995 to
January 2008 is when
Pluto was in the
sign of Sagittarius.
Now there are
subaspects, of course,
with any kind of
major Pluto movement.
But the Pluto in
Sagittarius generation
had a number of
them, primarily as it
related to Uranus and Neptune.
Now when Pluto first when
into Sagittarius, Uranus
was in Aquarius and
Neptune was in Aquarius.
They were all kind of
fairly late degrees.
And by the time it had
left Pluto in Sagittarius,
Uranus in Pisces-- Uranus
and Neptune had also shifted.
So Uranus had moved
into Pisces, and Neptune
moved into Aquarius.
They kind of flip-flopped there.
And what happened
was-- I'm sorry.
Well, Uranus--
Neptune was-- Neptune
was definitely in Aquarius.
My apologies.
But Uranus had
shifted into Pisces.
And the difference
is kind of distinct.
The early part of
Pluto in Sagittarius
has this super electric
energy with Uranus and Neptune
in Aquarius.
These people are going
to be system-busters,
and they're already starting
to come into society.
You may have read recently
about a young woman who
sued her parents because
they didn't give her
what she wanted, and
they cut her off,
and they said that she
had to go to the school
that they were paying for
and a number of other things.
Unfortunately, she's
sort of this first wave
of Pluto in Sagittarius
coming to our consciousness
in many ways.
And she challenged
her parents and lost,
by the way, in a court of law,
which is ruled by Sagittarius.
So the first generation is just
now starting to come online.
They're super bright.
They are pretty
advanced, in terms
of things that they look at
from a cultural perspective.
The second part of the
Pluto in Sagittarius
generation, where Uranus
was in Pisces and Neptune
was in Aquarius, they're
a little bit different.
They're a little
more quirky than the,
sort of the first wave.
Uranus in Pisces blends the
kind of electrical awareness
of any planet that
it's connected with
or any sign connected
with the planet Uranus.
But with Pisces,
it gives them kind
of a heightened psychic
sense and a heightened
psychic awareness.
So this is a generation
that's going to be really,
really attuned to, I would
say, Earth phenomena,
astronomical-- not astrological,
but astronomical-- phenomena,
and any kind of changes
in the environment.
This subgeneration
with Uranus in Pisces
will be very much connected
to and attuned to those kinds
of perturbations in
the field, as they say.
These are some of
the characteristics,
in general, of the Pluto
in Sagittarius generation.
They're outgoing.
They're generally outgoing.
That represents kind of
a quality of Sagittarius.
They're team-oriented.
And this plays a really large
role in their consciousness
and how their consciousness
can be shaped.
It's an important
thing to remember.
Now Pluto in Scorpio are not
necessarily team-oriented.
Pluto in Scorpio, that
generation, Generation XXX,
which is what I
like to call them,
they're into understanding
and finding out
things about
themselves from a very
deep psychological perspective.
And they are risk-takers, but
they're emotional risk-takers.
They like to push the
boundaries a little bit.
Pluto in Sagittarius
are risk-takers as well,
but they're risk-takers
in a physical sense,
in a natural and
a physical sense.
But they're team-oriented.
They enjoy team and
group-related efforts.
Anything having
to do with sports
would be very much aligned
with Pluto in Sagittarius.
They're truth-loving
and truth-seeking.
And I'll share with you a
story about my own son, who
is a Pluto in Sagittarius kid.
He's part of the
latter generation
or the subgeneration,
Uranus in Pisces.
And the other day he got out
of my car, and he said to me,
he said, "Dad, it
kind of sucks when
things are made
in other countries
and we lose jobs here."
And he's 10 years old.
He just turned 10 on Saturday.
And I asked him if he got
that from his grandfather, who
watches FOX News, and he said
no, he didn't get it from that.
He actually saw a sign that
was near where I lived,
and the sign, it
said made in India.
And he told me he
had seen the sign.
And he did the social
math, and he said, well,
if they're making
these signs overseas
or in some other country, then
there aren't as many jobs here,
or there aren't as
many sign-makers.
And it's pretty basic,
but in some ways
it's sort of endemic
of the generation,
because they're going to
figure through these things
out on their own.
They have an innate ability
to get to the center of truth.
So they're truth-loving,
and they are truth-seeking.
They appreciate nature,
because Sagittarius,
when we looked at the
sign, one of the things
that it rules is the
natural world and animals.
So as it relates to that,
they'll have loyalty to animals
down here.
So you can see them taking up
the quest for either animal
safety or animal sanctity,
animal rights, and things
that are related to
the natural world.
They abhor boredom.
They are kids that hate boredom.
They need to be challenged.
They like physical challenges.
They like mental
challenges as well.
I would say that of all the
more recent generations,
that this generation
would probably
have the most
difficulty in dealing
with traditional education.
So this could be a
generation-- and I
don't have the figures--
which is more rooted in things
like home schooling or
alternative schooling
because traditional education
might be too stifling,
it might be too regimented
and box-oriented
for their psyche and
their consciousness.
They're expansive.
Sagittarius is an
expansive sign.
They would have
expansive thoughts.
expansive philosophies.
So being philosophically and
also physically expansive
is important to them.
And as they grow
older, every generation
has an imprint that they'll
bring to the collective milieu,
and theirs will be expansion.
So one of the things that we
might see with this generation
is actually expanding beyond the
confines of the Earth itself,
going beyond gravity.
They're great minds.
And as we're going to
see here, the last time
that Pluto was in Sagittarius--
this is a little bit
later-- last time Pluto
was in Sagittarius
was just before the
American Revolution.
And in fact, the Pluto
in Sagittarius thinkers
and culture movers and
shapers and the philosophers
were the ones that
were planting the seeds
for the American Revolution.
So these kids have within
them that kind of spark.
Plus you have Uranus in
Aquarius, Neptune in Aquarius.
It's going to give them a really
forward-thinking and much more
inclusive kind of perspective
than almost any generation
before them.
They're going to be
deeply philosophical.
They're going to wonder
about life, wonder about God,
wonder about existence.
Now Sagittarius can also
be very paradoxical,
and they can be great heretics.
I would say one of the
archetypal Sagittarian
personas of the 20th
century is Jim Morrison,
and Jim Morrison was both,
in some ways, kind of sacred
and profane at the same time.
He had a really strong
kind of shamanic presence
and was, in his own way, devoted
to some form of revelation
of truth through art.
But at the same time, he also
had a very profound disdain
for the predominant culture,
even though his father, Douglas
Morrison, was one
of the architects
and the progenitors
of the Vietnam War.
It doesn't come out
very often, but he
was engaged in the Gulf
of Tonkin incident.
So Jim Morrison
is the son of one
of the architects
of the Vietnam War
and, in fact, lived
in Washington,
DC and went to kindergarten with
Gail Sloatman, who later became
the wife of Frank
Zappa, a little bit
of rock and roll
trivia for you there.
So they're deeply philosophical.
They're risk-takers.
We've already talked about that.
Sagittarius is paradoxical.
They will go to extremes
to find and understand
the truth in some ways.
And in fact, William
Blake, who we're
going to look at
in a moment here,
he has one of the great
aphorisms of all time when
it comes extremes, which is
"the roads of excess lead
to the palace of wisdom" a very
Sagittarian kind of philosophy
there.
They can be
conventionally moral.
So this is going to
be very different.
They're going to be very
different, in a lot of ways,
than their Pluto in Scorpio
predecessors who are,
in some ways, very amoral.
They'll do whatever they want,
whatever they need in order
to have that dynamic
hit on their psyche
and their psychological
experience
and their spiritual experience.
And as a result, we see
this sometimes with Pluto
in generations, and they'll kind
of flip-flop on one another.
They'll have one wave come
in, like Pluto in Leo,
and be gregarious and
big and larger than life,
and then they'll have
Pluto in Virgo come in
and scale it down a bit
and bring it back and get
more grounded, more real.
And so we see this
get worked out
through the evolution of
the procession of Pluto
through the various signs
and through generations.
So the Pluto in
Sagittarius kids, I think,
have the potential to be much
more conventionally moral
than the Pluto in Scorpio kids.
So I think what
we're going to see
as they get older is a
turning away at some point
from what I would call the
deeply illuminated culture
that we're living in right now.
And as a result, I
also think you're
going to see them become
more religiously oriented.
Now that could manifest
in traditional religions,
traditional Christianity,
traditional Islam.
Whatever kind of more
orthodox religion
we're talking about here,
Pluto in Sagittarius,
once they've kind of gone
through their cynicism
in some ways-- because
they can also be cynical.
Sagittarius can be quite
a cynical sign as well--
but once they get
through the cynicism
and reclaim their
faith, they can
become deeply religious
and religiously oriented.
They're spirited.
They have a lot of energy.
They have a lot of
drive and verve,
and not drive in the sense that
maybe Pluto in Capricorn kids
will have, but drive to
experience life, joie de vivre,
as the French would say.
And there's also an aspect
here of potential zealotry.
Because of all the
signs, Sagittarius
is the most zealous.
They can be the sign that can
be most judgmental in some ways.
They can be so convinced
that they are right,
either philosophically
or religiously
or politically, that they own
that to a degree that is, well,
a lot of people might
find to be judgmental.
So this is a generation that
has the seed of zealotry
planted in it.
Now this is important to
understand as we move forward
and we look at
"The Hunger Games,"
we look at "Divergent,"
and a few other things that
are on the horizon
for this generation.
And lastly--
Breaking down
traditional educational.
We've already covered that.
Lastly, they're very inventive.
This is a generation that
will invent great things.
And in fact, I read a piece
the other day on Yahoo!
about a 13-year-old who'd
made his own nuclear reactor.
I kid you not.
This is a Pluto in
Sagittarius kid.
So this is what we have
to look forward to,
and especially now because
Uranus is in Aries.
And as Uranus moves
through the sign of Aries,
it's going to trine,
begin to trine.
It's already trining right
now the early degrees of Pluto
in Sagittarius.
So these kids are
going through not only
a philosophical awakening but
a cosmic awakening as well.
The seed of the future lies
within this generation.
So their first point
of generational crisis
is going to be December of 2014.
That's when Saturn moves
into the sign of Sagittarius.
It'll be leaving Scorpio
and moving into Sagittarius.
And what we'll see
here is we'll see
Saturn hit the first
degrees of Pluto,
so it'll be that first wave
of Pluto in Sagittarius kids.
And what will happen
is is we're going
to see and witness with
them and through them
physical and
spiritual limitation.
Because based upon what
I'm seeing with Saturn
in Sagittarius,
Sagittarius rules law.
And when Saturn comes into
play and you combine the two--
by the way, Sagittarius
is in its fall
with Saturn-- we
have in some ways
the lesser expression or the
lesser manifestation of law,
not a type of law
that would expand.
That would be Jupiter
in Sagittarius,
and that would give us
kind of a cosmic law
or a natural law
or a common law.
Saturn in Sagittarius
will be the imposition
of law in a way that would
have a lot more gravity,
a lot more pressure, and a
lot more inertia associated
with it.
So just by Saturn
going into Sagittarius,
what we're going to
see is we're going
to see restrictions of freedoms.
That's what Saturn does.
It restricts.
Sagittarius is about
expansiveness and about
the quality of freedom.
And what's going to
happen is that Saturn
is going to be like a
vice grip on Sagittarius.
So we're going to see this
from a collective level.
It's just the way of things.
Because what's
happening is we're
seeing so much in our culture
right now and around the world
where people have had 24/7
exposure on the internet
since the mid
'90s, and there are
a lot of things that
people are discovering,
a lot of revelations
and epiphanies
that people are
having, and their eyes
are being opened to what's
going on in the world.
And as a result of this, there
will be more contraction,
more constriction,
and more gravity.
More laws will be put in place
as people become more awake.
It's just the nature of things.
So what is the potential?
What are the potential
outcomes or a potential outcome
for this?
Well, potentially
we could be looking
at a conscription and a
draft, maybe the first one
in years, because the
Pluto in Sagittarian kids
are used to being, in
some ways, free and open.
That's their nature, right?
And so if we have a
conscription and a draft,
will we have a call to war?
And well, we're right on
the brink of war right now
with Ukraine and Russia
and who knows who else
in the theater over
there in the Balkans.
So that's sort of in the
atmosphere right now.
And we're talking
December of 2014.
I don't want to be a
prognosticator of doom
and gloom, but we're looking
at a potential timeline here.
And remember, "Divergent"
opens on-- it's 3/21.
I made a mistake.
It is 3/21 at the beginning
of the Aries, 3/21/2014.
So that's the sign of
the warrior, right?
OK.
So 9/11 occurred when
Pluto was at 12 Sag.
Remember that.
9/11 occurred when Pluto
was at 12 Sagittarius.
Saturn will be at 12 Sagittarius
on the 9th of January in 2016.
So what we have here is we
have the potential of Saturn
to come right onto
that degree of Pluto
where we experienced
9/11, and there
could be a really profound
revelation of truth
during that time.
Something--
And we can back this
off about three degrees
and go back to the latter
part of December in 2015,
where we can see Saturn begin
to come into orb with Pluto.
And I guarantee you you're
going to hear chatter,
you're going to see
things on the internet,
you're going to hear
things on the news that
are going to be about
either some new revelation
around 9/11, people calling
for another investigation.
It's feeling to me that this
Saturn transit getting close
to Pluto will represent
some form of critical mass,
because we're going
back in time and we're
bringing Saturn and
Sagittarius, law,
around this whole
experience around 9/11.
So if that's the
case and we haven't
had some form of
global conflict,
god forbid, in Ukraine
and the Balkans
and that region
around Russia, then
if this is happening right
around the 9th of January
in 2016, then my
feeling is that there
would be other things
happening in the world
to take us away from
experiencing that revelation
or experiencing that quote,
unquote "collective moment
of truth."
So Sagittarius equals
truth, and Pluto brings it
from the depths.
And here we have a
graphic down below.
It's all about building
number 7 and the quote,
unquote "truthers" that are
still out there around 9/11.
So this is a really important
degree, an important time,
and it could potentially
impact the Pluto
in Sagittarius
people, young people.
All right.
So let's move on here.
These are some personages
from the last time
Pluto was in Sagittarius.
This is Goethe, who was born at
0 degrees Pluto in Sagittarius,
one of the great
minds of all time,
purportedly had
an IQ of over 200
and might have been one of the
founders of the Priory of Sion
as well.
Great philosopher.
Here we have Mozart, another
Pluto in Sagittarius persona.
He was an Aquarius.
So if you wanted to
look at, in some ways,
a manifestation of Uranus
in Aquarius and Neptune
in Aquarius with Pluto in
Sagittarius on the side,
maybe you could look at Mozart,
because he was an Aquarius,
he was born under
Pluto in Sagittarius,
so we have this really
explosive creative individual
whose art is almost
unsurpassed in many ways,
and also a child prodigy.
So I would not be
surprised if we
start to see more child
prodigies with Pluto
in Sagittarius as well.
Ah, OK.
This is James Freeman,
and James Freeman
is the founder of
the Unitarian Church.
And the reason why I
put him in this mix
is because he is a
religious reformer,
and we're going to see some
religious reforms in Pluto
in Sagittarius as well
with their generation.
And James Freeman is an
interesting character
because he broke with
the traditional belief
that there was a Trinity,
a father, and a son,
and a Holy Ghost.
He just said, no,
it's God the Father,
and God the Father
is in everything.
And he also believed
that Jesus did not
have an a priori
experience, meaning
that in traditional
Catholicism, or even
some forms of Protestantism,
that Jesus had an experience
before he was the Son of God,
that there was a Jesus that
predated that manifestation
and incarnation of Jesus.
And in James Freeman's
world, that was not the case.
James Freeman
believed that Jesus
was born as the Son of God and
did not exist prior to that.
So he's a really
influential figure
in terms of religion and
philosophy, born April 22,
so we've got a little
master number mix in there.
And I just wanted
to bring him in here
to show you how
Pluto in Sagittarius
transforms religion.
Here's Betsy Ross, also born
under Pluto in Sagittarius.
The flag is kind of
an interesting symbol,
as we'll see.
And again, I
wouldn't say there's
a form of a zealotry
involved here, but certainly
a devotion to a cause, which is
another thing that will be sort
of endemic of the Pluto
in Sagittarius kids.
Here's Marie Antoinette, another
Pluto in Sagittarius person.
This is Mary Wollstonecraft.
Pretty interesting, she's the
mother of Mary Wollstonecraft
Shelley, who will go on to write
"Frankenstein," which is really
the first novel
about transhumanism,
believe it or not.
So Mary Wollstonecraft
is also noted
as being the first feminist.
She wrote a number of
tracts and treatises
on the right, the
natural rights of women.
And one of her admirers who
was secretly in love with her
was this man.
This is William Blake, also
born under Pluto in Sagittarius.
And Blake is one of my
favorite philosophers and poets
of all time, and he's
also a Sagittarius.
So he's a Sagittarius
with Pluto in Sagittarius.
And one of the things
that Blake said
was that his art would be
discovered and appreciated
by a future generation.
And in some ways,
some people think
that that future generation
was the '60s generation,
for instance Jim Morrison,
Sagittarius again,
who named his band
after William Blake, who
wrote when the doors of
perception our cleansed,
then we would see all things
as they are, infinite.
And that was lifted
from Blake by Huxley,
who wrote the book about his
own hallucinatory experiences
called "The Doors of
Perception," and then,
of course, Jim Morrison used
the name The Doors for short
for his band.
So I think, though, that the
generation that William Blake
is talking about is the Pluto
in Sagittarius generation.
I think they'll
discover William Blake,
and they will be
the generation that
lives with this whole notion
and concept of imagination.
And what we're
seeing right now is
that the Pluto in Scorpio kids
are deeply into experience,
really into experience.
So in the Blake cosmology,
it's innocence, experience,
and imagination, and it's the
Pluto in Sagittarius kids,
I think, that have
a shot, a real shot,
at living a truly
imaginative life.
And when you have a
strong imagination
or you have the
potential to live
with a strong imagination--
What Blake means by
that, by the way,
is he's not talking
about fancy, which
is something very different.
He's talking about the
ability to create your world
in a way that is creative,
rich, and imaginative, in a way
to create your own system.
And Sagittarians are
into systems as well.
And Blake's famous quote is "I
shall create a system of my own
or be enslaved by
another-- by another's."
He uses its plural.
So this is going to be kind
of the mantra for the Pluto
in Sagittarius
generation as well,
creating their own systems.
Now here we have
a watershed event
which took place
when Pluto really
just went into Pluto
in Sagittarius.
This is the Olympic
Village in Atlanta.
This is just after the bombing
in the Olympic Village.
And by the way, I
think this is the day
after, because that bombing
happened at night time,
believe it or not.
And I was just blocks from this.
Just before it went off, I was
reading tarot cards in Atlanta
at the Olympics.
I'd had a great day.
It was a Friday night.
I packed up, and
I left that area,
and I was about two
and a half blocks away
from the Olympic Village.
And the bomb went off by the
time I got back to my car,
and I went to a
local restaurant/bar.
It was all over the news.
And of course, it had some
really powerful implications,
especially for this man.
This is Richard Jewell.
He's the security guard
that took the fall.
He took the fall for
the Olympic bombing.
It took years for him to begin
to clear his name from being
associated with the bombing.
He was a security guard.
He was a guy that was just
trying to help people out.
And he wound up actually
dying at a fairly young age,
some people believe due
to the pressure and stress
that being wrongly accused
around the Olympic bombing
had caused him.
Ironically enough, Richard
Jewell is a Sagittarius.
And of course, the person
who they eventually
decided that had
done the crime was I
believe his name
is Eric Mueller,
and he's now in a
supermax prison.
Now here's another
image of the flag.
This is from 9/11.
And this is, again, a
Pluto in Sagittarius event.
It happens a few years
after the Olympic bombing.
But what's interesting
about the Olympic bombing
is that right after
that, Clinton,
who was present at that time,
put in the Anti-terrorist
Act, which was kind of phase
one of the Patriot Act, which
would follow not long
after that, five years,
a scant five years.
So here we see some
first responders,
almost like the Iwo Jima flag
moment from World War II.
Now what I had stumbled
across just doing this is I
looked at the chart for
9/11/2001, and in some ways
I believe that that's the
new chart for America,
not the July 4 chart
but the 9/11/2001 chart.
There's some interesting
aspects to it.
Maybe I'll get into it
on a different show.
But this is, in some ways,
the recasting of America.
And of course, this was
one of the orchestrators
during that time.
Again, look at the
flag in the background.
We just saw the flag
with the firemen,
and we saw Betsy Ross
creating the flag.
So this is a theme,
a concurrent theme
with Pluto in Sagittarius.
We got a simulacra of patriotism
Do you remember that?
You're either with
us or against us.
And if you eat a French
fry, you're a traitor.
And there was this real
kind of faux patriotism
that everybody kind of had
to swallow during that time.
And it was, I guess, great
if you were a politician
because you could ride
that bandwagon for, well,
as long as you
could, or at least
as long as the end of his term
as President of the United
States, and then it started
to get a little ugly.
This man, Osama bin Laden.
By the way, today happens to
be Osama bin Laden's birthday.
That's right, March
10, his birthday.
He becomes an image for
religious fundamentalism, which
is also another theme
for Pluto in Sagittarius.
And we see this from a
number of different corners,
but mainly at this
time the attribution
that radical Islam was the cause
of the September 11 attacks.
So Muslims became
demonized during the days
after September 11, and we
saw this extreme version,
the Wahabi.
Everybody became familiar,
thanks to Fox News,
with the Wahabi version
of Islam, the Wahabists.
And here we go.
Oh, this is interesting.
We're going to get into
another kind of extreme version
of religion, but this is the
cover from "The Sporting News,"
and this is after the New
England Patriots won the Super
Bowl, which was in, I
believe, February of 2002.
This is the first Super
Bowl after 9/11, right?
And what do we have here?
It's the Patriots,
"Patriots Day."
And so the first,
kind of, event that
buoys our spirits in a big
way in the collective theater
is the Super Bowl.
It's the Patriots
beating the Rams.
And it's the Patriots, right?
It's that American
spirit again, and we're
seeing this being broadcast
right into our homes
and into our psyches with
the New England Patriots
and "Sporting News"
and all the networks.
So it's reaffirming
in a lot of ways
the message that was being
sent across all media channels
at that time, that
you were to support
this new version
of America, based
on the new chart of America,
which took place on 9/11/2001.
And as a result, the Patriot
Act had been introduced as well.
So do you see how it's all
kind of syncing together here?
Now, one of the other things
that took place during Pluto
in Sagittarius is
that we saw-- we
began to see-- it
was happening then,
but we began to see the seeds
of corruption in sports.
And here we have Mark
McGwuire and Sammy Sosa,
kind of a classic sort of
a Greco-Roman thing going
on here with the
laurels of the heroes.
And of course, we're
seeing duality.
We're seeing the
black and white image,
Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwuire.
It was all manufactured.
They weren't really
all that good friends,
but they were on this, kind of,
quest to hit 60-plus home runs.
And how were they doing that?
They were doing it because
they were using steroids.
It made them stronger.
It made them bigger.
The ball traveled father.
They saw it better.
People who said that steroids
didn't affect baseball, made
baseball players better,
well, they were wrong.
Of course they did.
And this is what happened
during Pluto in Sagittarius.
Sagittarius rules sports, right?
And Pluto is extremes.
So these guys were going
to extreme measures
to build their body up so
that they would be successful.
And it came out later on,
thanks to Jose Canseco
and some other people, that
baseball was indeed dirty.
Why was it dirty?
Because they'd had
a strike, and people
were walking away from the game.
They were losing interest.
And so the players were juiced.
The ball was juiced.
It was flying out
of the ballpark.
Great ratings, people went back
to the ballpark to see games,
but unfortunately it was
Pluto in Sagittarius,
and they were using extreme
measures to do that.
Both of these guys are a
disgrace now, by the way.
Here's another example.
This is towards the end
of Pluto in Sagittarius.
This is Tim Donaghy,
a ref from the NBA.
And he was busted
for betting on games.
Now Donaghy intimates that
he wasn't the only one
and that the league
itself was fixing games.
Now it's kind of hard
to believe somebody
who's a convicted felon.
But if you ask me, I'd rather
believe a convicted felon who
had some insight into the
sport and into gambling
than somebody who
is saying, well, it
could never have happened,
and it's not true.
It didn't exist, and Donaghy's
a liar, and so on, and so on.
But again, it's another
specter of this Pluto
in Sagittarius piece.
Pluto also represents
the underworld.
So Tim Donaghy was dealing
with the underworld
through sports and Sagittarius.
And this is another
kind of manifestation
of astrology in action.
Now this is Ted Haggard.
And Ted Haggard was a minister
not far from the Gaiam studios
here.
He was minister of one
of these super churches,
the megachurches,
which were very, very
popular during the late
'90s and the early 2000s.
And in fact, George
Bush got elected
on the backs of
the megachurches.
And what was really
interesting about Ted Haggard
was that he-- I saw this great
special one time on NBC--
and Haggard and about ten other
ministers around the country
used to have conference calls
on a weekly basis with George
Bush.
He even admitted that.
And what they would do is
they would talk to Bush,
and they would talk
to his speech writers,
and they would
give him language.
And Bush would use
language, biblical language.
One of the phrases
that they would use
was the works of
wonder, works of wonder.
And Bush would use that
phrase in one of his speeches,
and of course these
guys, who we were
in charge of these
massive megachurches,
would also use that phrase
to their congregation,
so that there was this
kind of to and fro,
this call and response
between these megachurches
and Bush at that time.
And so what we saw was
this kind of collusion
but an extreme collusion,
an extreme version
of Christianity, which is
still popularized today
by the likes of John
Hagee and Pat Robertson.
And it's the end
times Christianity.
It's all based on the
Revelation and the Rapture,
and it's a death cult,
really, if you ask me.
And it got really popular
during this phase and cycle
when Bush was in office.
You had, in some ways, the clash
between Islam and Christianity
and sort of an echo
and a reincarnation
of the Crusades,
which is, again,
represents some form
of religious extremism.
And of course, Mr.
Haggard got in trouble.
Why?
Because he got
busted with a male,
a masseuse who also went
beyond the code of ethics
when it came to rubbing bodies.
And there was
methamphetamine involved.
So here again, we have Pluto.
It's kind of the
underworld, right?
It's drugs.
It's gay sex.
And here he's the head of this
massive megachurch in Colorado
helping set, in some ways,
not just poli-- in some ways
policy, but also
feeding the president
and giving him the verbiage and
the symbolism for his speeches.
It's a fall from grace,
but it's also indicative,
in some ways, of
Pluto in Sagittarius.
It's heresy, heresy.
So we go back to
heretics, which is
what I talked about early on.
Now here we go.
This is more
religious extremism.
These are the guys that were
supposedly involved in 9/11.
Most of them are still
around, by the way.
But this is kind
of the-- this is
what we were dealing
with at that time.
We were given the face of Islam,
and this was the new extremism,
religious extremism,
Pluto in Sagittarius.
I just wanted to jog
your memory a little bit.
All right.
Let's move on to the juicy
stuff, the here and the now.
This is "The Hunger
Games." "The Hunger Games,"
again, a really important Pluto
in Sagittarius movie and meme.
It was written by
Suzanne Collins.
Suzanne Collins is a resident,
by the way, of Sandy Hook.
You won't read
that on Wikipedia,
but she lives in Sandy Hook.
So here we have
"The Hunger Games."
We have the arrow,
the flaming arrow,
which is a resonant with
Pluto in Sagittarius,
and the mockingjay.
And of course, our hero,
Katniss Everdeen, a young women,
instead of the two young men.
So we have a theme here
that's being flipped,
and we'll also see this
in the movie "Divergent."
Here is Suzanne Collins, the
author of "The Hunger Games."
She's a Leo, so she deals
with fire, creativity.
She used to work
for Nickelodeon.
And if you watched the cartoon
"Little Bear" with your kids,
like I did with my kid, she
was the writer for that show.
Now here's where it gets
kind of intriguing for me.
This is one of the scenes
from "The Hunger Games."
This is at the beginning
when they're starting to do--
what do they call it?-- it's
like the lottery for when
they'll draw the boy and
the girl from the districts.
This is District 12, and these
are the boys from District 12.
And it gives you kind of a
sense here of the regimentation
of the youth kind of falling
into line in some ways,
with grays and whites.
It's very drab.
There's not a lot of color.
There's not a lot
of spirit here.
They seem kind of beaten down.
It's almost like a cross between
Philip K Dick and Steinbeck
with the imagery.
And what it's doing
in a lot of ways,
it's massaging the
psyche of the Pluto
in Sagittarius kids
who will watch this.
This is kind of what "The
Hunger Games" is all about.
It's getting children
used to a dystopian future
where they will fall
in line and they
will kill each other,
if they have to.
It's kind of a terrible
thought and premise,
but this is what the
Games are talking about.
By the way, it's based on
a Japanese TV series called
"Battle Royale,"
which is where I
think Suzanne
Collins got the idea.
So here we have the
regimentation of the youth,
of the boys in
"The Hunger Games."
By the way, "The Hunger Games"
consists of 12 districts.
District 13, which was
involved in nuclear energy,
got wiped out.
There's 12 districts.
There's 12 signs of the zodiac.
I'm just saying.
Now this is not out of a movie.
This is out of our current
time, our current milieu.
This is the first
group of kids that
had been graduated by the
Department of Homeland
Security.
And here they have
these toy guns.
The orange on the
barrel represents
that it's not a real weapon.
But I'm sure they have
fired real weapons
at some point in time.
And this is a group
of kids that are
being groomed right
now as we speak.
They are Pluto is
Sagittarius kids.
So this is what I
was talking about,
this whole regimentation piece.
Now I'm doing my best
not to profile here, OK?
But obviously these kids
are-- they're Latino.
And so this brings in another
aspect of Sagittarius,
which is dealing with foreign
cultures and other countries.
So my sense is is that these
are either first or second
generation Latin American
kids who are probably
going through
this-- maybe they're
getting some form of
rights as citizens.
I wouldn't be necessarily
sure about that.
But there is kind
of a sense here
that they are
arriving, that there
are a part of the country.
And not only they are
a part of the country,
but they're a part of
the country's future.
Now this is an
interesting symbol.
This took place at
the Olympics in China.
And then as you'll see, or
as you saw with "The Hunger
Games," with the flaming arrow
and the flaming mockingjay,
which is "Catching Fire," the
second of The Hunger Games
books and movies, we see
this fire symbol and the fire
symbolism really light up
and take place in China.
And what is Pluto
in Sagittarius?
They are a fire sign.
So fire is going to
become fairly prominent
in their generational
experience.
Now here we have "Divergent,"
which is the movie
that we started off with.
It's a series of three
novels, a trilogy, written
by Veronica Roth, who is also
a Leo, like Suzanne Collins.
So I guess the moral of the
story is if you're a Leo
and you want to write
dystopian children's books,
you've got a pretty
good shot at it.
Here we have the
fire symbolism again,
but we also have
the all-seeing eye
within the fire, which
is kind of interesting.
And for those of you who are
into noticing these things,
I'm sure you can see
that fairly easily.
This is not a
mistake, by the way.
None of this is by accident.
There's Veronica Roth,
the author of "Divergent"
and a Leo.
She's interesting.
She's Pluto in Scorpio.
She's Jewish by birth, but
she was raised as a Christian,
and she sees herself
as a Christian now.
So there's maybe some of
the religious themes coming
through her Pluto in Sagittarius
work, which is obviously
crafted for a
particular generation.
Here's a poster from
"Divergent," 3/21/14.
That's when it opens.
So it's not on that
cross, thank god.
That would almost be too much.
3/21/14, first day
of Sagittarius.
Oh, by the way, "The Hunger
Games: Catching Fire"
opened on 11/22/2013,
11/22/2013,
first day of Sagittarius, 11/22.
Got that?
First day of Sagittarius.
I just wanted to
throw that in there.
So look at the back here.
Here we have these symbols
going up and down the spine.
These are tattoos.
My sense here is that they
represent the chakras,
as the chakras go up
and down the spine.
And we're going to
get into these symbols
and what they mean.
But the image here is
that the chakra system
has become, in
some ways, exposed.
It's been put on the
skin of-- I think
his name is Four
in the movie, Four.
So here we have the chakra
system becoming exposed,
and the mystery of it is
revealed, and, in some ways,
it's locked into the skin.
So it's a bodily experience.
It's not necessarily a
spiritual experience.
These are the symbols
of "Divergent."
We have Abnegation, the
selfless, Dauntless, the brave.
We have Amity, the peaceful.
We have Erudite,
the intelligent,
and then there is
Candor, the honest.
If you look at these
symbols from an astrological
perspective, we have fire,
which is Dauntless, brave,
Sagittarius.
We have Abnegation, the
selfless, which is Pisces.
We have Amity, the peaceful.
Now sometimes we would
associate that with maybe Libra.
However, this is a tree.
It's related to the Earth
and the roots of the Earth.
And what sign do we
attribute to being
an Earth sign or
related to the Earth?
Virgo.
And then we have
Erudite, the intelligent
and, again, the all-seeing eye.
And what sign do we
associate with intelligence?
Gemini.
So here we have the four mutable
signs, Sagittarius, Pisces,
Virgo, Gemini, and
then the fifth sign
to tie it all together
is candor, the honest.
And it's explicit; it's
Libra, but you also
see the reconciliation
of opposites
here, white and black, black
and white, and in some ways that
also represents Gemini.
So it's the bridge between
Gemini and Libra, candor.
Really, really
interesting stuff.
And of course, the pentagon
right in the center of it
all, which, who
knows, may or may not
be engaged in the training of
the divergent personalities.
Actually, she's divergent.
Everybody else is part of one
of these sort of genotypes.
So, you're born into a
faction, and then you
choose to stay or
join a new faction.
So let's say you're
born into Abnegation.
I'm sensing here that
Abnegation or being born into it
would be some sort of
phenotype or genetic type.
And then along
the way, you could
choose to join something else.
But typology is really
important within the universe
of "Divergent."
Well, that brings us close
to the end of the show.
We're seeing here--
what I've been trying
to show you is that there is
a kind of a collective psyche
or collective drive around
Pluto in Sagittarius
towards some form
of regimentation
and potentially even
some form of revolution.
Because in both films,
"Divergent" and "The Hunger
Games," there's a
revolution that takes place,
and the revolution
is the burning down
of the existing regime
or the previous regime.
So perhaps another
part of this message
is is that they're wiring
our youth to at some point
have a revolution inside
of this country, for better
or for worse.
Perhaps it will bring a new
regime of more oppression,
or perhaps it'll be a
new regime of liberation,
but that certainly seems to
be the subtext of both films.
Now this last slide
I'm showing you
and then the clip
I'm about to show you
is from a current TV show
called "Friday Night Tykes."
It takes place here
in the United States
in the state of Texas, primarily
in the San Antonio area.
And it's a pretty
controversial show
because it shows football
coaches and their eight
and nine-year-old proteges
in practice and in games,
and it shows some
of the personal life
of the coaches and
the players as well.
And it's fairly intense,
and at some points,
it's kind of vicious.
It's like they're training
pitbulls, in some ways.
And as an athlete and
former football player,
I understand the mentality.
And as somebody
who lives in Texas,
I understand the
football mentality.
And as you'll see here, a
number of these kids come
from homes that have only
one parent, generally
the mother, so the football
coaches in this area,
in this part of San
Antonio, are playing
the role of the uber father or
the father that's not there,
and, as a result, they
have to be pretty intense
when they do that.
So I'm just showing
you this clip
because this gives you
a sense of the Pluto
in Sagittarius
generation, in some ways,
for better or for worse.
So let's check this out.
This is a clip from
"Friday Night Tykes."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>The north side, their
life is a little different,
three-car garages.
They're raising
their kids different.
I use the word soft
as Charmin tissues.
Over here on the east
side, it's a little harder.
If somebody gets
hit, the parents
don't break out and cry.
They'd be like, boy,
get the hell up.
You better get 'em next time.
>>Lucas, my son,
the quarterback,
you never see me
talk to him out here.
I don't want to hear
no favoritism crap.
But the other kids?
I want to beat them down.
You need to wake up, boy.
Hey.
Hello?
>>Come on, man.
Get-- defensive
three-point stance, son.
I shouldn't have to tell
you that every time, man.
[BOYS YELLING IN TANDEM]
>>One more time.
>>Which way we facing when
we came down this way?
>>That way.
>>Hey, you need to be focused.
[BOYS YELLING IN TANDEM]
>>My son EJ is a
player on the team.
And I was raised in this
area, so I pretty much
know how it is.
A lot of these kids are
from single-parent homes,
so they don't have
that positive male role
model, for whatever reason.
So for me, coaching football,
you don't only coach football.
You coach life skills as well.
>> COACH: Right here.
>>Man, when I say
end, what I mean?
>>Everybody needs discipline,
love and discipline.
And if you don't give it to
'em, they will act crazy.
I already told you
I'm upset with you.
So you can earn that back.
We produce winners, period.
You better straighten
that line up.
>>Hey, straighten my lines
up before I become very
aggravated, agitated,
belligerent,
you know what I'm
saying, destructive,
all of those negative things
that mean I'm going to hurt one
of y'all.
I don't care if I'm liked.
[MEN LAUGHING]
>>I don't give a damn--
>>I don't care
>>--about being liked.
>>Because at the end of
the day, I'm out here
for the kids, where they're
getting positive reinforcement,
life lessons, and discipline.
Some kids need a
kick in the butt.
Some need a pat on the butt.
We know the difference.
Damn.
>> ROBERT PHOENIX: So that was a
clip from "Friday Night Tykes,"
which gets into the life
and the plane of the Pluto
in Sagittarius kids in the Texas
Youth Football Association.
Spiritual warriors or the
stormtroopers for the New World
Order, what are
they going to be?
That's Pluto in Sagittarius,
and only time and your parenting
will tell.
Until next time, this
is Robert Phoenix,
and you've been in
"The Eleventh House."